---
title: Drafts 4
author: Aaron
layout: post
permalink: /drafts-4/
link: http://www.macstories.net/reviews/drafts-4-review/
dsq_thread_id:
  - 3119919784
categories:
  - Tech
format: link
---
<a title="Alex Guyot" href="http://unapologetic.io/" target="_blank">Alex Guyot</a> writing for <a title="Drafts 4 Review" href="http://www.macstories.net/reviews/drafts-4-review/" target="_blank">MacStories</a>:

> Drafts 3 was an app that had reached its maximum potential. Having led the URL scheme craze to the very limits of the protocol’s capabilities, there wasn’t much more for Drafts 3 to do. Drafts 4 has taken the amazing foundation of Drafts 3 and evolved it to a higher form, setting it up to be able to grow in a new era of iOS automation.
>
> With a refreshed UI that irons out many of the kinks that had manifested in earlier versions, a newer and more accessible interface for creating powerful chained workflows, an amazingly useful Share extension, and impressive advanced automation techniques such as JavaScript support, an enhanced URL scheme, and a custom extended keyboard, Drafts 4 is an amazing update to a classic app. Drafts 4 shows us all that it’s ready for the future, and I can’t wait to see where it goes from here.

The original Drafts was the first iOS productivity app that I became obsessed with. The premise has always been simple: the app allows you to quickly write down any text and then, later, figure out what you want to do with it. I agree with Alex&#8217;s assessment, however: Drafts was growing stale. Like many automation-friendly apps from the pre-iOS 8 era, Drafts was beginning the lose its luster during the opening volley of iOS 8.

Thankfully, Greg Pierce had a battle plan all along. Drafts 4 is an amazing update that carries the app into the new world of iOS 8. Some of my favorite features so far:

  * **Multi-step Actions.** In Drafts 3, actions were limited to performing one task; now, an action can contain any number of steps. Feel like sending a URL, copying something to the clipboard, and thenrunning a URL scheme (all in one action)? Go for it.
  * **More Semantic Grouping.** Drafts 3&#8217;s focus on grouping actions into I, II, III, IV, and Hidden always struck me as odd; should I contain all my most-used actions? What should go in III or IV? Drafts 4 fixes this by coming with a default set (Services, Markdown, etc.) that make more sense. The best part? Groups are completely customizable**.**
  * **Action Directory.** Little more needs to be said: Agile Tortoise now has a true action directory where users can submit and share Drafts actions. Hallelujah.
  * **Share Extension.** Arbitrary text from arbitrary apps into Drafts. Woohoo!

Automation is definitely changing in the iOS 8 world and old-world apps need to innovate before they&#8217;re left behind. Drafts did this, and more: it reignited my passion for what&#8217;s possible on iOS.
